# Network_Analysis_-of_NGOs_and_GlobalPartnership

Network Mapping and Analysis Report

This project gives an insight about the network/ graph analysis of relationships among non-state actors; global foundations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and research institutions (RIs) that concern or operate in West and East African countries. Social network analysis is an appropriate tool to discover the non-directional connections among actors because these actors are social structures that connect them together. As evaluation criteria, centrality, clustering coefficients, density, and modularity metrics are implemented. 
Data for this research were collected using NGO databases, datasets, websites and social media platforms of NGOs and RIs. Criteria for selecting the subjects were working in women's economic empowerment (WEE) and inclusive governance (IG) in East and West Africa for NGOs and Research institutions. 300 NGOs and their 221 global partners are identified in 10 countries (Senegal, Cote D’ Ivoire, Benin, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia). For Global foundations, the criteria were having connections with those NGOs and operating at the global scale. Thus, regional foundations, private companies, and NGO network groups are excluded from this selection.

Results

The network of the West and East African NGOs at country level:
Degree centrality in network science measures the degree of a node (actor) in a social network. It is basically the number of edges that the actor has. The basic intuition is that actors with more connections are more influential and important actor in a network. In this regard, the country-level network analysis reports that Women Fund Tanzania (Tanzania), Centre Ivoirien de Recherches Economiques et Sociales (Ivory Coast), STAR-Ghana Foundation (Ghana), Katiba Institute (Kenya), Women for Fair Development (Malawi) are respectively the actors that have highest connections with others, accordingly, it could be assumed that they are the most important NGOs in their countries. Eigenvector centrality measures an actor who is connected to many actors who themselves have higher connections. Thus, the Institute of Economic Affairs (Kenya), FEMNET (Kenya), CICODEV (Senegal), HYCF-Helping you Community Forum (Malawi), and African Institute for Development Policy Research and Dialogue (Kenya) are the NGOs that connect to the most important NGOs in their countries. Closeness centrality is a way of detecting actors that are able to spread information very efficiently through a graph, because of its closeness to the most important actors. The Centre Ivoirien de Recherches Economiques et Sociales (Ivory Coast), STAR-Ghana Foundation (Ghana), TrustAfrica (Senegal), Partnership for Economic Policy (PEP) (Senegal), Association and TAXAWU TALIBE (A.T.T) (Senegal) are the NGOs that close to most important NGOs in their countries. Betweenness Centrality is often used to find actors that serve as a bridge from one part of a network to another. In other words, a higher betweenness degree of an NGO means that NGO is the most transitive actor between two groups. Women Fund Tanzania, ABANTU for Development, (Ghana), African Woman and Child Feature Service, (Kenya), and STAR-Ghana Foundation are the NGOs that work as a bridge in their network.
In terms of other network parameters, density tells us how connected a particular network is. Country-level density is measured at 0.005 which means country-level connections among NGOs that work in WE and IG areas in West and East Africa is not well-connected.
Modularity measures the communities in a network. A grouping of actors within a component that is usually more densely connected than the rest of the network around it. Modularity is measured at 0.90 which is a higher degree. A possible explanation is that NGOs are more likely to connect with each other in their own countries than with regional partners.
Assortativity (Homophily) in a network refers to the tendency of nodes to connect with other ‘similar’ nodes over ‘dissimilar’ nodes. It is measured at -0.23. Negative values indicate correlation between NGOs of different degrees. It means identical NGOs do have not many connections as expected.
Transitivity means the strategic consideration of a triangular relationship such as my friend's friend is my friend and my enemy's friend are my enemy. Low level transitivity (0.01) indicates that connections between NGOs are not transitive and do not affect their other partners.
The clustering effect basically tells us how well-connected the neighborhood of the node is. If the neighborhood is fully connected, the clustering coefficient is 1, and a value close to 0 means that there are hardly any connections in the neighborhood. At the country level, average clustering is measured at 0.01 which means NGOs’ neighbors has also low connections.

The network of the West and East African NGOs at Regional level:
At the regional level, all centrality measures indicate that Centre Ivoirien de Recherches Economiques et Sociales (West Africa), STAR-Ghana Foundation (West Africa), African Women development fund Tanzania (East Africa), Institute for Child Development & Cross-Cultural Exchange (ICDCE)-Ghana (West), TrustAfrica (Senegal) respectively are the NGOs that have highest connections with other NGOs/ RIs, as a result, it might be to assert that they are the most important NGOs in their regions.
As regards density (0.04), the West and East networks are not densely connected within themselves. The modularity effect is measured at 0.17, which means NGOs are not likely to form communities in their regions. Average clustering (0.04) suggests that NGO neighbors have low connections. Transitivity (0.02) also indicates that NGO partners do not connect with each other. However, the degree assortative coefficient suggests a negative and higher correlation (-0.56). That is to say, dissimilar NGOs are more likely to connect than similar ones. Possible explanation is that some NGOs have more regional connections than national ones.
The Network of The West and East African NGOs and Their Global Partners
In global partnership network, the degree centrality metric suggests that the UN and the UN-affiliated organizations, The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Open Society Foundation, The International Development Research Centre (IDRC-Canada), and Ford Foundation are respectively the global partners that have the highest connections with other NGOs/ RIs in West and East Africa. In the meantime, HYCF-Helping you Community Forum (Malawi), African Institute for Development Policy Research and Dialogue, (Kenya), Institute of Economic Affairs (Kenya), Forum for Africa Women Educationalist Zambia, and Yamba Malawi are the most central NGOs in this network. It might be assumed that both groups’ actors are the most important actors in this network. 
Other centrality metrics suggest that while the UN, The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Open Society Foundations, The International Development Research Centre (IDRC-Canada) as global partners and the Institute of Economic Affairs – Kenya, FEMNET, CICODEV, HYCF-Helping you Community Forum, African Institute for Development Policy Research and Dialogue as NGO/RIs are another central actors regarding their closeness, relations with the most important actors, being as a bridge in the network.
In terms of density (0.008), it is seen that the global network is not densely connected. That means Global partners or NGOs do have not many connections. However, modularity (0.56) is higher than at country and regional levels and a higher score suggests that actors tend to create their own communities at the global network. While a negative degree assortative coefficient (-0.06) implies that there is a negative and low degree correlation between global partners and NGOs’ neighbors (their neighbors are less connected with others), transitivity and clustering could not be measured. 

Conclusion
The evidence from this research intimates that particular NGOs/ RIs and their global partners which are presented above, are more likely to be the most central and important actors in their networks. Considering analogously all three levels of networks;
- Actors in global partnership networks have more connections than country level and regional level.
- Global partnership network has more presence of community structure than country and regional levels. 
- All three levels, connections are not transitive, and do not breed more collaboration with the others.

It is likely that a number of limitations might have influenced the results obtained regarding data collection. By nature, there is no systematic way to collect data using the internet. Throughout the research, the data could be obtained only if an NGO/ RI reveals their info on their website, social media platforms, etc., or only if a database recorded their activities. Although there could be connections between actors, this information might have not appeared on their website and might be embedded only in their documents. It is recommended that future research should be taken into account this concern. I believe the results of this graph analysis and mapping project are promising and the prospect of addressing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) concern across Africa, serves as a continuous incentive for future research. 
